



IRIS
Iris is a guest who is staying in Room 216 ("Success"). Her conflict is centered around the disappearance of her older half-sister Grace Woodward, and her own inner feelings of inadequacy.

JEFF DAMON
Jeff is the son of defence attorney Larry Damon, who specializes in organized crime, as a member of Nile. Jeff overhears his father speaking with members of Nile and realizes that his fathers money is dirty. Becoming disgusted at this, Jeff breaks into his father's safe and steals $20,000 and a gun, as to scare him. Jeff brings Mila to the hotel after picking her up on the side of the road. It quickly transpires that Jeff is hiding something as his distrusting nature and bad attitude towards Hyde causes tension between the two. His arrogance gets the better of him when Hyde decides to investigate the young man and finds out his past. Jeff tells Kyle that he would go back to his father, but his story is a mystery after that.

MELISSA WOODWARD
Melissa Woodward is a guest who is staying in Room 219 ("Bravery") with her father, Kevin Woodward. Their conflict is centered around the recent disappearance of Grace, Melissa's mother and Kevin's wife.

GAMEPLAY
The player, as Kyle Hyde, moves around and interacts with the environment using the DS's touch screen and must solve a variety of puzzles using the handheld's various features including the touch screen, microphone, and closeable cover. The DS is held rotated 90 degrees from normal, like a book, with an option in the game to allow the player to switch which side the touchpad is on depending on which hand is dominant.
Throughout the game, the player must speak with the various hotel patrons and employees in order to uncover vital information. The player can show the characters items that Kyle has collected, or ask questions that have been brought to Kyle's attention. By asking the right questions, Kyle will uncover the information he needs. If he asks the wrong question, makes a wrong assumption, behaves rudely, shows the wrong item, gets caught with something that isn't his, or encounters someone (usually an employee) in a restricted area or room (either by noticing him or getting their attention), he may confuse or anger the person. This is usually indicated by a darkening of the character in question. This can result in Kyle being forced to retreat to his room or, later in the game, getting kicked out of the hotel, leaving him unable to solve the mystery.
The game is filled with adventure-style puzzles, most of which involve using the touch screen to perform a simple task. Movement is made by leading an iconic representation of Kyle around a map of the hotel on the touch screen or d-pad while a first-person three-dimensional view is shown on the other screen.
There is also a journal to write in, which is used by several other characters as well, though all critical in-game story notes are copied automatically. It gives three pages to write in, with a simple pencil/eraser system.
__________________________
The game takes place at Hotel Dusk, a fictional, rundown motel in Nevada, in 1979. Kyle Hyde, a former New York City detective and now working as a salesman for Red Crown, has arrived at the hotel in his search for his former partner, Brian Bradley, and is given Room 215, a room rumored to be able to grant wishes. Kyle finds that the hotel has many mysteries as well as connections to his past, and begins to look into these further. The order of the discovery of these elements within the game will depend on choices players make, and as such, the summary below is the chronological order of the larger story.
In the past, Robert Evans and Dunning Smith were friends at college, but went their separate ways. Evans inherited his family's art gallery, while Dunning wanted to become a professional painter. Both married and each had a daughter: Mila and Jenny, respectively. In 1960, they reunited in an airport, after both of their wives died in a tragic plane crash. A year later, Evans came up with the idea of creating "Osterzone", a dead painter whose works would be highly valued. Evans deeply admired Dunning’s skill at painting, and offered him to paint works to be credited as Osterzone’s, to which he agreed. While Dunning painted, Evans displayed the works in his art gallery and created the mytho of Osterzone. The scam was successful, the paintings sold for fortunes, including one called "Angel Opening a Door", and Evans and Dunning became rich.
